New page: HTML comments (#34811)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/html/comments/index.md

---
title: Comments
slug: Web/HTML/Comments
page-type: guide
spec-urls: https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/syntax.html#comments
---

{{CSSRef}}

An HTML **comment** is used to add explanatory notes to the markup or to prevent the browser from interpreting specific parts of the document.

Comments start with the string `<!--` and end with the string `-->`, generally with text in between. This text cannot start with the string `>` or `->`, cannot contain the strings `-->` or `--!>`, nor end with the string `<!-`, though `<!` is allowed.

Anything in HTML between `<!--` and `-->` is an HTML comment. The browser ignores comments as it renders the code. In other words, they are not visible on the page - just in the code. HTML comments are a way for you to write helpful notes about your code or logic.

> Comments can be placed wherever white space is allowed within a document. They can be used on a single line, or traverse multiple lines.

Reviewer: Strictly speaking this is false. `<!doctype <!-- comment --> html>` is not allowed. Neither is `<div <!-- comment --> class="a">`. In fact, comments are more like text than whitespace and is permitted as a content.

Reviewer: I suggest:

```suggestion
Comments can be used on a single line, or span multiple lines. They can be used in the following places:

- Before and after the {{Glossary("Doctype")}}
- Before and after the {{HTMLElement("html")}} element
- As the content of most elements except: {{HTMLElement("script")}}, {{HTMLElement("style")}}, {{HTMLElement("title")}}, {{HTMLElement("textarea")}}, because these elements interpret their content as raw text

  > **Note:** While `<script>` elements should not have HTML comments and should use [JavaScript comments](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Lexical_grammar#comments) instead, there was a legacy practice to enclose the whole script content in an HTML comment so ancient browsers that don't support JavaScript does not render it. This is now a [legacy feature of JavaScript itself](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Deprecated_and_obsolete_features) and you should not rely on it.
```

> The above is true for [XML](/en-US/docs/Web/XML/) comments as well. In addition, in XML, like with[SVG](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/) or [MathML](<(/en-US/docs/Web/MathML/)>) markup, a comment cannot contain the character sequence `--`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above is true for [XML](/en-US/docs/Web/XML) comments as well. In addition, in XML, such as in [SVG](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG) or [MathML](/en-US/docs/Web/MathML) markup, a comment cannot contain the character sequence `--`.
```

## Syntax

```html
<!-- Comment -->
```

## Examples

> ```css

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```html
````

---
title: Comments
slug: Web/HTML/Comments
page-type: guide
spec-urls: https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/syntax.html#comments
---

{{CSSRef}}

An HTML **comment** is used to add explanatory notes to the markup or to prevent the browser from interpreting specific parts of the document.

Comments start with the string `<!--` and end with the string `-->`, generally with text in between. This text cannot start with the string `>` or `->`, cannot contain the strings `-->` or `--!>`, nor end with the string `<!-`, though `<!` is allowed.

> Anything in HTML between `<!--` and `-->` is an HTML comment. The browser ignores comments as it renders the code. In other words, they are not visible on the page - just in the code. HTML comments are a way for you to write helpful notes about your code or logic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The browser ignores comments as it renders the code. In other words, they are not visible on the page - just in the code. HTML comments are a way for you to write helpful notes about your code or logic.
```

I think this sentence is redundant at best and probably confusing, because as we said below, `<!--` doesn't always start a comment if it's not in the right position.

Comments can be used on a single line, or span multiple lines. They can be used in the following places:

- Before and after the {{Glossary("Doctype")}}
- Before and after the {{HTMLElement("html")}} element
- As the content of most elements except: {{HTMLElement("script")}}, {{HTMLElement("style")}}, {{HTMLElement("title")}}, {{HTMLElement("textarea")}}, because these elements interpret their content as raw text

> **Note:** While `<script>` elements should not have HTML comments and should use [JavaScript comments](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Lexical_grammar#comments) instead, there was a legacy practice to enclose the whole script content in an HTML comment so ancient browsers that don't support JavaScript don't render it as text. This is now a [legacy feature of JavaScript itself](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Deprecated_and_obsolete_features#html_comments) and you should not rely on it.

## Syntax

```html
<!-- Comment -->
```

## Examples

```html
<!-- A one-line comment -->

<!--
A comment
that stretches
over several
lines
-->

<!-- The comment below disables
   the HTML contained within -->
<!--
<p>
   This content will not be rendered.
</p>
-->
```

> > **Note:** HTML comments are only permitted as content. You cannot use it within a tag, such as before an HTML [attribute](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Attribute).

Reviewer: Let's put this into the "Notes" section?

## Notes

As with most programming languages that use the `<!-- -->` comment syntax, comments cannot be nested. In other words, the first instance of `-->` that follows an instance of `<!--` closes the comment.

> While comments do start with a `<` and end in a `>`, a comment is not an HTML element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While comments do start with a `<` and end in a `>`, a comment is not an HTML element. The {{domxref("Comment")}} and {{domxref("Element")}} interfaces both inherit from {{domxref("Node")}}.
```

Just a personal suggestion that IMO would help.

Author: i included comment in the see also. For this page topic, while we do want to be a reference, I think this will confuse more readers than it will help.

Reviewer: The thing is, "a comment is not an HTML element" is irrelevant to a developer if you don't tie it to any code behavior.

Author: this is  informing people who are learning how to write HTML that `<!-->` is not an element like `<p>` or `<template>`

Reviewer: But my question is how does that help them do anything pragmatic? They know where to put `<!-->` and where to put `<p>`, but how does knowing that "a comment is not an element" help them author either, outside the context of the complete HTML syntax structure (not to say that the syntax of "elements" itself differs dramatically, with void elements, content categories, etc.)?

Author: added to the see also.
